since the last time I have
designed me so make sure it's open
infusion okay so I've
designed this it's I designed it to uh
go on top like this and spin around but
I realizes this Tang this cord gets
Tangled so it's actually a stupid design
then I was looking at it it's actually
way better if I just flip it upside
down great design so I'm going to just
fix that but today today I don't have a
ton of
time so I'm going to
um do something a little different and
that is trying to get this
uh uh Arduino no no uh Raspberry Pi Pico
to control my stepper driver which
um I'll
show uh it not working and but first
I'll show it working on the Uno and one
thing that I want to do is I want to
record it with this oscilloscope that I
have so
um we just need
to cut some wires
actually we need to unscrew this
from there
just do that
okay uh let's just make them yellow and
white
also yellow and white wires yellow and
white wires honestly the most
overwhelming thing about these starting
these projects which I just have to get
over is that it's just so freaking
cumbersome what the hell did that happen
then
and a white
bar okay so now I can just forward
oh and I forgot which is which let me
um so here uh let's
uh go to the code where even is this
code it's on my other
computer
damn the Autodesk Fusion thing where the
files are just built in is so nice I
really like I really like that
feature
um okay oh yeah so here's the 3D model
of what I built and so what I realized
is you just have to turn this thing
upside down and then it's way better
because you don't have to uh deal with
the the cable getting caught around it
so we're going to fix that but maybe not
today okay so let's so the Arduino is
plugged
[Music]
in yes okay then we just need to plug in
the
servo or the stepper I
mean
here for
okay so I've hooked up the stepper motor
so now we just need to plug in the power
supply which
is
um oh but this is the wrong one
um yeah what we need is so the stepper
driver takes 24 volts so I found a 19
one cuz 18 is like in its operational
range so
uh just give VDC in there
okay so now we just need to figure out
uh it's probably in my
um it's probably no wait it's probably
this
okay yeah so this code is what we
want okay and then we need to
um no
um
Comm probably
this oh I guess it already knew I don't
know so we should just be able to upload
this and then plug in this
thing oh wait we didn't we didn't give
it any signal yet so
pulse goes to
7 pulse goes to
seven oh so it started to turn that's
good
sign and this goes to
six okay and and you should be able to
well you probably won't be able to see
anything
but just for my sake it is turning back
and oh yeah you can going back and
forth
so anyways uh now what we need to do is
set this up with the Pico well actually
but what I want to do right now is get
these bad
boys and make some
wires oh
shoot okay
okay so now we have probes for these
things and we we want to look at oh I
guess we need
um well I guess what I care about since
the pulse seems to work is the
dur so let's record the
dur
output okay and then I don't really
remember how to use this
thing let's just say
run okay yeah there we go
so let's do
this yeah so this is at five this is at
five
volts oh yeah so the two things we're
doing we're checking if the Pico works
and we're checking if the esp32
works
um I want to just look at the other pin
this is the uh oh this is the dur pin I
I had it
mistaken okay so it's writing it high
and low to 5 Vols so that's like exactly
what I expected so now we need to load
oh we need to install
thony okay we need to install thony
bro what the hell what's going on
um dude
what are we serious are we serious chat
chat tell me a fourth
area oh wait okay I don't know what the
hell was going
on okay and then okay let me plug in my
um okay so anyways connected to the
breadboard is a a
Pico and
so I don't know if this is true but I
also have a
5vt a 5vt uh power supply from the wall
and
basically since the stepper driver takes
5V inputs I'm guessing if I drive it
with 3.3 it won't work but I kind of
want to test it because I don't think
that anything's going to go
wrong
okay okay then I I think when I I hold
down boot cell and then I plug it
in now it's like a a thing thing a
mountable disc or whatever I don't
actually know where's th
though let's
go let's
go let's go so now we need
to see it's supposed to like recognize
it but what I had to do was I had to
like manually select this and then I had
to select Pico w
so we'll let it do that and then we need
to figure out these pins I think uh it's
actually so annoying that they don't
have the pin out on the uh top of it but
let me go copy of the
code wait okay wait
okay so seven so we need the
uh this is probably not the
uh okay
nice um so yeah so it was like 9 and
10 so what we want to
do is add some
wires or whatever I'll just use
these oh but we want to record
them yeah okay we have
[Music]
room so this needs to go to let's see
pulse needs to go to nine wait so let me
copy that
code okay pulse needs to go to oh 10
let's make that nine let's switch these
and let's switch them in the other one
too
okay um so
uh pulse is uh nine so
that and
dur is 10 okay I love how skinny the
Pico is the ESP you
can't have it like on a breadboard and
use the breadboard as a
breakout um
okay so let's just run this
thing I think it's right right oh wait
do I have to
oh yeah okay so wait this is
powered and it should be controlling and
the power suppli is connected so I think
we're good to go oh but what we want to
do is we want to look at the uh thing on
the oscilloscope so let's look at dur
first and let's just see if it works at
all that's really the uh
right interesting it's so weird
so dur is being sent oh wait and why is
it being sent no it's being sent at
three and a half full so the other one
was up here but okay let's look
at
Pulse yes I don't know it's only
rotating in One Direction and I don't
know why the signal is definitely the
same
signals
so I want to see if the ESP does it my
guess wait
yeah it's tripping me out I thought it's
definitely only going in One Direction
so okay so there is a way to like use a
transistor to like take 5vt and like
make it work I would like to try that
but the first thing I want to do is just
check if the ESP
works it's so
bizarre um I'm just going to turn this
off
and get the
ESP
e
e e
is there anything more freaking viby
than than using an oscilloscope in
California in the
summer yeah you know um so uh so uh so
let's figure this thing
out yeah I think we just want to
sacrifice oh that's yeah yes you have to
sacrifice one okay
okay let's do this
actually one thing that's nice about
this ESP is that it
um oh but we
need wait where's 5 volts coming from oh
5 volts wasn't coming from anywhere
actually that's really weird let me try
Okay let me try to
um let's try to do that again actually
with the
Pico and give
it where's 3v 36 which
is I don't know what oh that's the
enable is that an enable pin
what is it
37 oh it disables it
oh that is kind of useful okay so
whatever it's not a big deal so we need
to do
30 uh 37 which is or 36 which is the
fifth one
down okay so now
presumably I don't think it's actually
going to change
anything oh it
did okay so the problem all along was
just
that it's probably not
advised to
use I want to
know my stepper driver takes five Vol
logic and I'm using the Pico
three logic but it seems to work how bad
is doing this
oh give me a break dude this seems
like yeah I feel like I'm totally fine
to do this but at some point I want to
go find those transistors and and do the
level shifter but that's so if we were
to just
like I don't know I'm just making this
the deao project cuz I don't really care
where I write this do I have to do a g
poll
probably
um
um uh what what do we need to do we need
to create a level
shter with a transistor to give 5V logic
to driver from Pico okay so that's
something to do but I could not care
less at the moment so now we
have excised this horrible Arduino Uno
from the
project and now what we need to do so
this is the next step is just to control
um yeah it's so funny that it just it
was just
um yeah that's so funny it was at zero
volts there and that's but I don't know
why the
uh I don't know why one worked and the
other didn't though that's like the
weird part but
anyways so now
I need to figure out what its IP is
though I think it tells me or something
it probably prints it
out oh I need to switch
that hold on
oh actually yeah I want to is it let's
see
yeah that's the simplest thing
is it still with a
Servo cy. standard in that's select I
don't know what the hell that is that's
interesting hopefully the comport I
don't think the comport is open so let's
um oh thank God it's a tab based system
Lally the worst wor part about Arduino
is that every time it opens a new window
it's like one of them yeah let's switch
these so let's run this select isn't
defined dude you got to be kidding me
what oh this thing is so old
okay let's see
I'm surprised it's getting this
wrong maybe just like there's like so
little micropython
code okay Pico how to read uh serial
input
this short tutorial will show you how to
use USB serial connection to send data
from a terminal on your PC to your R you
can use the process I te this video in
any your own projects and I'll show you
a simple example of how it works by
telling the PCO to switch off the LED on
or off this tutorial will nicely round
out a previous video of mine which shows
you how to Output data from your PCO to
your computer over USB serial check that
in the card above if you're interested
as always the source cod in this
tutorial is avable on my website link in
the description before we get into
coding we need some kind of ser1
application to send data to the p as
well as to receive data from it as I'm
on Windows computer I use an application
called py but it doesn't really matter
which application you use in fact if you
have the IDE you can use the serial
monitor tool built into it so let's
project I made videos detailing the
project set process in Vis Studio code
on windows so if you need to find this
out it be in the cards above in our F we
tell the compiler that we're going to be
using the USB IO and disable the U outut
this is done with theod enable STD iio
USB function then the name of your
executable then a one to enable it our
executable here I've named is Blink LED
so we'll use it to disable the UT use
the P enable stdo U function and use a
zero after the ex name to disable it we
can save and close this file our project
now Rec config with these new settings
we're going to include the STD head file
and any other headers your specific
program might need we're going to create
a very straightforward demonstration
of what the [__] is going on
this also writee I'm going to
be End video you'll be
able as well asend Comm seral to disable
pins and more getting output from your
code is an extremely important part of
buing without an idea what secr your
program is in you might as well be
trying to read the mind of your
microcontroller which can beust instead
to communicate with the p we're going to
use FD rs232 cable like this one rs232
is a physical layer protocol responsible
for carrying the UR protocol or
Universal ASN receiv Transit we're going
to hook up our FDI cable to the art zero
bus on our PCO art zero is a default bus
used for standard input output for
standard IO when we write code call
functions like print F scan F ET use
this bus the way we're going to wire FDI
cable to the p is as follows the orange
cable or host receive is going to go to
pin two the yellow cable for host
transmit is going to go to pin one and
then finally the black cable for ground
will go to pin three having a common
ground between devices is extremely
important without it it's likely your
devices won't be able to understand what
the other one is saying so it's
important to not skip the step here you
can see I have might go the same way the
FDI cable is plugged into the zero for
Ser Communications and the micro USB
cable is plugged in so that I can
program the device on my station when I
plug in the FDI USB cable itates as/ TTY
usb0 to communicate with it we need to
use a program to open seral devices use
many wait what the hell is he talking
about on my station when I plug in so I
can program device Communications the
mic USB C is plugged in so that I can
program the device on my station when I
plug in the F USB cable PO says TTY usb0
to communicate with it you need to use a
program able to open zal devices I use
minom to install it typo app install
minom once installed run Pudo minom
Capital d// TTY usb0 once inside any you
need to press contr plus a then o to go
to the options menu select serial Port
set up then press F and this disabl
Hardware control so you can type to the
all right now that we have serial Port
hook up let's write some
code Link in the description for that
also I notic that 90% of my viewers are
not subscribed if you're not subscribed
right now do me a favor hit that sub
button I'd really appreciate it step one
we need to confirm we can actually get
out from the device remember like I said
all standard output input goes to theal
we have hooked up so we can literally
just typ our code and in the should get
out the terminal let's try so first we
need to do is there a video with micro
python Pico read s or send serial
data this better use micro python
dude why am
I okay whatever I guess I'm going to
give up on that and we're just going to
use
uh I'm going to do this
so wait uh let's un oh wait yeah no no
R okay
[Music]
um
what okay
so let me
just I don't know what to do here I feel
like
I feel like I'm being paranoid but I
don't
know
okay okay so let's
um see let's just see if we can connect
in the network that's actually a
okay so it's oh and here's the IP so
that's
great so
now what do we
do oh wait step motor how many is step
motor
okay so it does one
revolution so I go
to oh
wait okay it did
move nice okay
okay wait let's just watch this
video but he's using this like weird
thing where you have to
like like why do I need this why can't I
uh use the
USB that's what this makes it seem like
time is it it's three
okay I just want sleep bit so we're not
BL so let's make that and again using
here PR tutorial if you haven't seen
watch it make it good and then we need
to copy our uf2 file to Ras P awesome so
now every half a second we get output to
the Cal great that means our interal is
working and we can get data from Ras go
now let's send dat to it so just like
we're doing print a standard function we
can actually use functions like scanf or
gets or otherwise to read data from us
um so for this one we're going to do is
we're going to create a character buffer
it's called buffer and we are going to
use scanf so scanf for those you don't
know it's a function that reads in data
from the user in library um and it takes
a format string parameter for string is
going to be 1024s which means it's a
1024 by long string we're going to store
that output into the buffer um and then
we are going to use print F just print
it back to us and that'll be our
confirmation that we can actually get
data into Theo so same thing make our
code the code build successfully that's
aesome so we'll copy our code in should
reset and then if we type some data we
hit enter it should show up and it does
so I'm typing I'm H enter and it's
coming back to the screen the problem
with this is that you're not seeing the
return output from your type keystrokes
but when I type and I hit enter it's
coming back to the screen by print great
so now we can do input and output so
let's do something fun right let's set
it up so that when we send it data it
checks what the data says and then based
on what it says it does something so
we'll do a program that turns the LED on
off based on our input so basically we
already have the input coming in we can
do a stir compare of our buffer to some
value so we'll say if our input buffer
is equal to on that's this line does the
s compar between buffer and on is zero
which means they're the same we'll do a
gpio put to the LED pin and turn it on
otherwise if the C compare of our buffer
is equal to off then we'll turn it off
and I have to add some extra stuff up
here just to initialize the pin so GPO
iio in LED pin has happen first and GPO
set
Direction LED pin GP it's not Direction
it's D and obviously we need to pound
toine what L pin mean l pin is 25 so
this will basically read our input if
the input is on it'll turn the pin on
input is off turn the pin off let's try
that file over okay you should be able
type data and get it back so if I type
on enter light comes on if I type I
enter light goes off the problem here is
I leave the print you can't see but I
promise I'm typing on let goes on typ
off let goes off pretty cool and then
one more thing we can do we can add
another IFL stat to this ccare and if it
says
reboot if it says reboot we can do a
reset USB boot and what this will
actually do is put the Raspberry p into
it programming mode so I can tell it to
reboot and that will you to reprogram to
it so to use the reset Bo function we
actually add
something now actually we're also going
to add a print here that will output our
inputs we can see I'm typing we'll REM
this real quick okay I copy over device
okay cop this so I'm typing on go onping
off goes off and then we reboot it and
we now put the device back into its
programable mode anyway guys this is
serial io on the Rasberry P I hope you
enjoyed this hope you learned something
if you did hit like hit subscribe drop a
comment we see you guys in the next
video
byebye it's pretty
cool it's so weird with the controller
today in the workshop we're working with
what up guys today I'll be showing you
how to code to use seral
it's so weird that
uh is there
Pico what the fck oh
that's kind of
interesting the raspberry Pico rp240 is
an arm cortex m0 based micr processor
equipped with two cores in this video
I'll show you how to write code for the
Rasberry Pico that uses the second core
on the processor using the second core
enabl you to make your pico project
twice as powerful by using a completely
separate thread of execution to talk
about doing multi programming we first
need to Define what the word core means
the core is a functional unit on the
processor capable of executing program
code by having multiple cores on a
processor you can execute multiple
segments of code at the same time
whenever we write code with the Rasberry
Pico for example core zero the first
core executes the code the second core
is on standby never doing anything here
you see AIC of two cores each core is
separately running its own code
completely independently they have
separate program code and separate
memory space there are cases however
where the cores can share program code
and memory space sharing code is not
problematic as fetching code is a read
instruction and it does not create a
raise condition however sharing the same
locations for data is problematic as it
creates a possibility for a raise
condition to exist where Mutual access
Ed to the memory is not assured so if
the cores aren't supposed to share
memory directly then how do the cor
communicate well the masterer Rasberry
Pi figured this out and created two
separate fos or first in first out
structures to act as a mechanism for
communicating between the cores only one
fifo is writable by core zero and only
one fifo is writable by core one this
way no core is ever wrting to the same
location at the same time in this
example core Zer has some memory and
needs to communicate to core one for
some kind of processing instead of
writing that memory directly into core
one's memory space which could ince a
race condition core Z uses writable F to
push that data to core One Core one does
its processing and then uses its fifo to
get that process data back to core Z
core Z could have been executing other
tasks while waited for core one to
finish processing this process of using
fos to pass data around prev cases where
core zero is reaching into core one's
memory or vice versa so with that being
said let's write some code to make this
happen to see okay so here we are in my
Linux build environment watched my
previous video on how to set up a cmake
build environment for the raspberry Pico
csdk please go watch that it'll make
this video much more easy to digest I
know I keep eting this up but I do have
to say I could not have done this
tutorial if I didn't have the Raspberry
Pi Pico cdk document in front of me the
entire time um they do a very good job
of documenting all the functions I'll be
using today in the tutorial so after
this tutorial go give us a read and see
what other trouble you can get yourself
into anyway back to the code um so over
on the right we're going to be writing
the code that's going to go onto our
raspberry Pio um so this is a multicore
video so the first thing we need to do
is initiate the second core the way we
do that Rasberry Pio is first we have to
pound the p/ multicore library that does
it includes the library of code that
Rasberry Pi has produced to enable us to
do multiprocess program on the Rasberry
Pi Pico next we need to tell the
Raspberry Pi Pico to launch code on it
second core and just to prevent any
confusion um the second core is called
core one just so you're aware so the
code starts this code will start in core
zero and the rest of the code that we
launch on the second core will be in
core one just're all on the same page
we're going to call this function and
we're going to call it on the function
name that's going to get rent by second
we're call that second core code and
then as void second code and then what
we WR in this area on second so we
actually do now is write something we're
do is we're going to do the blink
example we're going to have the second
core tell the first core when turn on
off and the first FL is actually turn on
off so we're is we're going to use the
we about to push data to the first Flo
every second so that and then first
second and then we're going to push data
into the first is mul push block and
we're going to push the command GP on
every second the second will put the GP
on number one and then we're cop this
code and paste it and then we instead
using the GP on command we're going to
use the GP off off so now we have the
code set for we need to now make so do
that by
run
to and then for every one we need to get
data from this came from second varable
called command and command is going to
equal multicore pop blocking the block
means is that you actually sit here and
wait code exed until something we sit
here and wait for second for p out we
rece it here inable we have we going to
do a GPI put on the L pin we going set
value Comm okay that's it here to launch
this code our second the second is
second put second we're and for we're to
pop out one of
these
for take our compile program and put it
onto
as you see heree the first is R this
pulling out and the second is Comming
the first something any sub oh but now
the problem with
this is I feel like it's going to be a
total pain on
Windows if you want to learn how to
write C for Rasberry Pi's new micr
controller the Pico stick around we're
doing that next
[Music]
Lear um so what we're going to start is
we are going to go Google and we're
going to search for raspberry pie
um and that's going to get us to the
getting started so these are a lot of
really good resources here Ras out on
how to get start with Rasberry speically
we're going go to C C++ area go way B
and we're going to go to the Rasberry p
p C++ or C++ SDK that'll bring us to
what I would argue is one of the most
well doed apis for an MCU I've ever seen
um this data sheet should be used
whenever you're programming the rest
they fully document almost every API
that has so if you need to learn
something new or want new feature for
the device you need to go here we have
open through it we're playing with the
hardware GP functionality you don't much
the documentation understand how this
here so once you find CR this doation a
little bit you're going to go to GitHub
and go to this link I'll put this link
in the description in video right there
um you're going to clone this link so
this link is the code required by the
developer to interface with the board
without this middle layer of code
between us and Raspberry Pi we wouldn't
know how to do things the board's
capable of doing Rasberry Pi prodes this
code to enable us to do it um so if we l
on SDK we should got this nice folder of
a bunch of different libraries and see
stuff um so now that we have our SDK we
can use which right here um we need to
make a folder that is going to contain
our project so for me I made this folder
called custom right so you can name
whatever you want folder that is where
your code is going to live so then you
need to do is into your your project
folder you need to copy from the PK
external this C file you put it in your
folder now we read the contents of my
folder we have the C file um the CM file
that we get from Pi is actually a part
of the C build system so I'm this C is a
really powerful build system that
platform independent that allows
developers to control how their code is
compiled built and tested um so by
making the pi build through C you
actually build project for it on Windows
L pretty cool now we have this file here
we need to make this new file we're
going to write um it's called C list.txt
and I have mine open here so go ahead
pause the video and this down um
basically what this does is it sets up
our build envirment to import that file
that we got from Raspberry Pi to set the
name of our project in a couple
programming standards um it initializes
the SDK which means it sets up the build
envirment to use SDK for us um we then
say we're going to produce an called
blink which is name of the tutorial from
the blink. C file we're also going to
link the Pico standard Library which we
need to do p things right kind of like
the C standard library in C we're going
to link that Library into our ex and
then finally we're this part called
output link so you seen other tutorials
when you dude why did my eyes glaze over
whenever someone's trying to explain
a keep going okay so now we're program
right um so here we have blink. which is
the actual code going to get r on the so
pretty straight similar to how the works
when it comes to GPO so the first L here
we're going to include P standard Li
note that these are in quotes and on
hard Braes that's because we're actually
using the PK that c involves include
files we allowed to do quotes like this
we're do three pound defs on the first
is G on which is one g off is zero and
we're find
okay well
um I mean this is
nice
um is there a
Pico let put it in here uh Pico
controller
uh s
[Music]
server dude what why does it keep taking
me back
there
um all
right see how long's the stream been
probably less than an
hour
yeah so now I guess I can just go back
to we're going to modify
this and
essentially we are going
to I wonder if I should just do this
from
scratch because I want to make copies of
this low
key because this is going to become the
the bottom mounting
plate I don't think I updated that but
whatever
um okay so let's
uh I mean what what needs to change what
needs to change is um
first off I'm going to make the bottom
plate
bigger do I have a pen I don't think I
have a
pen
um and then we need to make a
cylinder and then actually what we want
to
do um
so wait I want to how much did it move
forward because I want it to move
forward
more oh [__] I leaked the whatever who
cares steps per resolution is 200 which
I believe is true
because oh no it's
1,600
so okay so that
should kind of move
twice I need a Sharpie really
quick e
okay so we're just going to draw some
lines
here
here okay so now now we have a can do
this okay
so you even see the line
so okay be there we
go
so I go to this
website I don't know why it makes like a
pause in the middle though can you see
that
wait
hold it moves it's doing two rotations I
don't know why it's doing two
rotations if I change okay so let's undo
this if I change the code to be 800
which I don't know why it should be 1600
play
what e adder in
use I keep getting
this oh wait is it because
that I don't know
why how to
restart Pico
the reset button is that the boots is
that the same as the boot
cell
oh
no okay let's try
this oh wait did I need it hold
on I don't know if I actually have to do
that cuz I feel like nothing Chang es
but comport 8 what the hell are you
talking about oh what the hell are you
talking about
man oh wait oh I'm not supposed to do
that I don't think I'm supposed to do
that
okay
so is this still being nasty to
me
no nasty
boy
478 okay
yeah I don't know why it makes a pause
in the
middle yeah
okay but you know what I'm actually
looking at it and the uh tracking is
very good it actually is turning
360 uh so that's good
news
um cool okay so now it's time
to uh okay so we okay so we just need to
redesign this thing so I'm going to do a
V2 and basically
it's going to be the exact same thing
except this is going to go up
here I don't
know exactly how I want to handle
this I think maybe just be it being flat
would be fine so we're going totally
remove that
divot okay so let's just um let's just
rebuild the whole thing so we're going
to rebuild the top plate or it's going
to be called the top plate now so uh top
uh we call it reversed because this is
the uh reversed top I I I'm just going
to call it top plate
two okay this thing all it needs to
be is um
this and then we need to open up the
original top
plate oh
Jesus yeah we'll delete that or
something or we'll rename this three or
something but it's going to be
a okay this is so easy so we just need
no this is not right we need the bottom
plate because this was yeah okay I'm
dumb as hell so we need
uh okay so all we need really is to copy
this uh so let's just go to that
sketch so okay wait yeah so the size of
this
thing what's its radius though
125 okay easy that's what I thought it
was
125 and then we're going to redo the
pillars
to and the pillar height we're going to
need to
remember
is
um the shaft height minus the
um uh yeah so wait can we go to that
just to refresh
on the calculation
of the height of this Extrusion I
believe right what does it say 24 which
is the uh length of
Theus
5.5 which is the depth of this this
thing plus
1.5 oh wait okay can we figure out what
the depth of
oh can we figure out what the depth of
this is just by doing that
four so why is it
5.5 I wish this was bigger to be honest
it's kind of annoying
okay
24 - 5.5 - 3 + 1.5 so the 1.5 I don't
understand but I get the 5.5 and wait I
get I feel like it shouldn't be
5.5 let's see what is the length of the
shaft
from let's open up the um
okay so from the where it's going to
mount
onto to here this is 24 so yeah so when
I do this I I should make
some variable
names that's I guess part of the
advantage of doing all the assembly at
one thing oh what happened okay
um so shaft
height Go
24 then the depth of this thing is four
so I don't know
why oh is this like bro the one the 5.5
and the 1.5 cancel out okay so yeah so
um we should just get rid of that and
then we ALS so want
to you know I'm fine with the screws
being in there so let's so this is top
plate two so this is
125 now we need a uh
Circle but really all we need are these
holes
so is it
this okay so they're
1.5 and they're in the Cent and the
distance is 10 then they're horizontally
with the center so okay let's extrude
this by
three or two let do two I like
two just faster to print
um okay then we need to draw in here we
need to draw a circle here and a line
it's a construction line here then we
want to uh mirror this
cross here then we want to make this
um
1.5 and then we want to make this and
this horizontal then we want to make the
distance between here and here to be
10 okay so that's that's what's going on
and then we just oh you know what we
should have done actually
all right I'll do it one more time I
think there's probably a way for me
to copy it but uh let's just um
oh
[__] okay so then uh we finish sketch
and oh and then when we do this we
unselect this okay so that's that's
literally it it then we just need to
copy some of the
uh oh then we need to
um add the pillars and I think the
pillars are going to
be 24 minus 3
still so going to be 21 so
uh
um what the hell do I need to do then
I'll need to copy the geometry
from the old so finish this from this so
let's actually just look at that okay 30
20 I wish I could just copy this element
and then let's be done with
it
um okay
so actually let's uh we need to add that
into
um if figet how to do
this it's 20
right this is 5.2 is that
right 30 20 5.2 and then mirror it
okay uh yeah yeah oh sometimes I'm just
so bad
okay
so all
right okay so this is pretty
good now we just need to finish sketch
and I think can we just jump to this
no we need to deselect this and we need
to deselect
this okay so that's all we need there
besides we want to draw a sketch on
here and we want
um I forget so
might be
10 uh we just need to look
at this is not
it we don't have it
open did I close
it oh I'm dumb
as okay so let's just look at this 10
and it's 50 away
okay and you want that as far away as
possible to be honest
but so 10
uh yeah what the hell am I doing
we said this was
50 okay now we want to extrude this by
what what did we say oh 24 minus
3 then we fill it it by five oh
wait okay now we do um circular pattern
features bop bop
axis this axis four of
them okay so
that's and what's weird is I don't know
if I should make
it I'm going to undo this I think the
top plate doesn't need these I think
we're going to do it on the bottom plate
okay so this is it very simple
part so
um this is such a better design it's
kind of
crazy so um
just undo everything can I undo why
can't I
undo
fine I don't give a
[__] okay so the first thing is
125 extrude that by
three okay
then we want to know
from that's
48 so we can make
it 50 tall
um so 50 that's kind of tall but
whatever okay then on
here uh yeah um we need to I think I
have a dxf somewhere
how did I
get the um how did I get this geometry
in here that's what I want to know it
doesn't actually
Matter 15 and a half
[Music]
three okay let's just do that so
uh yeah so uh
this is going to
be
oh
okay
mirror this oh what did something weird
happened okay mirror
on here oh what
dude
okay okay now we just want to extrude
these three
down okay so that's that why does that
look not
right glad I caught
that okay um so now we need to put the
the things on
it and this should still be 24 minus
okay so now
um draw a circle here it's 10 distances
oh I wish we could project that
line I wonder if I wonder if we can do
that I actually am curious so if I go
here and I make a circle here make it 10
because I'm using so much similar
geometry that it just makes sense and
this and this are
horizontal and then um this gets
extruded by
10 okay then this gets filled by
five is that right no no no I'm dumb as
hell this gets extruded by 24 -
3 which is the thickness of the
wall okay then we fill it it by
five okay then we a circular pattern
that these two
oops these two features around this axis
and there's four of them okay so that is
the whole thing
right is there anything else I'm missing
I feel like that's the whole
thing
um okay so we just need to print these
parts I guess the shaft coupler should
still work so no reason to change that
um I guess I just want to check that
um well we might as well do the
assembly so I don't know what what this
is this is old
[__]
um okay
so and I think I saved it in the wrong
spot
okay
whatever I could have sworn I had it
though what was it
called stepper
two the hell is this
thing oh yeah this was uh this was going
to this is going to be like a design
where you use bearings instead of just
like uh these pillars but I don't really
care
um assembly two I got okay so now we
want to insert
component and we want that component to
be where is your
stepper okay
we're probably going to need to rotate
that then we want to
insert another
component which
is
B
bottom which one is it I think it's
bottom plate
three okay and that's like almost
perfect the only thing that we need to
do is uh we need to move this well let's
move the stepper
so let's move this stepper
down by three is
that okay that that didn't do what I
wanted at
all okay so let's just do this how I
want to do
it oh wait did I do shift J do this
and then we want to go under
here and do that okay now let's
see okay let's say okay oh wait oh I
never built a shaft hole that is Bad
News Bears for
sure uh so yeah so let's go back to this
first thing and we need oh wait no not
the first thing the second sketch
I believe it's the second sketch oh
no it's definitely the third sketch I
don't know why I'm being such an idiot
okay so this needs to be
5.4 I
think
um where's the
OG is it
that oh it's it's got to be the oh the
coupler you know I could probably have
just gone to okay but yeah it's
5.4 so let's go to
here
5.4 okay now finish the sketch go to the
Extrusion oh
wait okay
there we go so we save this add shaft
hole okay now when we
update okay we're good and if you look
from the top it should
be ever so slight of a gap I guess I
don't know it actually doesn't look
there's any Gap
but there should be I mean if you take
this is
5.4 there's a radius of two and a half
so yeah anyways um the next thing is I
want to
test the distance between this face and
this
so
21 which is the height of these things
so if I I took this and this the Min
distance is 16 which is
annoying how do I get the max
distance well anyways um I'm pretty sure
it's
right
okay so oh the other thing that we need
to build actually though is
um here so we want to create construct
tangent
plane I'm pretty sure this is going to
be right I don't know how it always gets
it right but it
does okay all right it looks like I'm
back I waited all right so uh yeah so
you create a tangent plane and then and
then I think I just create a sketch on
here and then I want to project this
thing and then that means that I
want I want
a instruction
line
oops okay then um I think
that can I do this okay
um we just want to make a rectangle
that's
like oh you know what I actually want to
do a 2
point
oh let's do that again
does it actually tell you when it's a
circle do that okay what's uh okay let's
make the radius of
this uh
15 let's make the
distance uh oh let's make that and that
horizontal okay it's still not
strain and I don't know why let's
see
oh that's yeah
that's okay let's make this 10 who
cares okay we finished the sketch now
this is on that face so just we need
extrude this minus three right oh what
the hell oh wait extrude
this uh
this way
all
oh and we want it to be a
cut and so instead of that let's just
make
it that might cut too much instead of
this we're going to do
distance minus 5 I don't know if this is
really how is supposed to
go no objects found to
cut oh do do I have to be in this I
probably do oh wait actually I'm doing
this all
wrong okay so let's
go and just get out of here
okay and then we need to go to bottom
plate
three and
um oh well we need to
know what D I mean it actually doesn't
matter so let's just pick an arbitrary
one
so all right so let's pick this
one so on here we want to uh we want to
construct an offset we construct a
tangent
plane and
that I don't know what reference plane
means can I view the
origin okay so I believe that those are
perpendic or parallel so anyways now we
want to draw a sketch on
here project
this okay we want to draw a line that's
a construction
line from
here to
here okay now we want to make a little
Arc from like
here to
here okay and then this we don't want to
be distance we make this radius 15 right
is that right but we want to make make
the the distance between here and here
10 okay that's probably enough room so
then what do we what else do we
need what can
move oh yeah and then this and this are
coincident
okay so now we should be able to extrude
this and I don't think that the two will
work oh I yes it
does no but see like what is that let's
just go all the way through there's got
to be a better way for that but
um anyways that'll that'll let the cable
go
through okay so we'll save that add hole
for cable exit
okay so now we just need to print this I
think I don't know what else um wait
where's the
assembly okay so let's update
this okay yeah it's not on the right
side but that's fine so let's
um where are we why why am I seeing all
this sketch
geometry uh so yeah we have this
revolute but then what uh so let's undo
that so
this is not grounded but we need to make
a well we made a rigid joint didn't
we what point did we We join the the
mounting
hole wait so this is right then you
can't move this okay so we're good there
we just need to add the
Fasteners capture position I guess or
actually you know I hate that I I I want
to there we go insert
fasher and I really hate this but uh
it's they're socket
heads and
they're I think they're just
these and that's all we need to
do and then
black
okay all right so there's that and they
are M5 I'm almost positive wait no are
they m5s what's the diameter that
hole you don't really need this
what is this this is the top plate do we
still we
actually
um
wait wait a
minute oh
we we need a bigger hole there that's
the wrong hole that needs to
be 16.5 or something so if we go to this
top plate let we look at
this yeah six wait
23 oh no yeah okay
23 okay so let's fix that so instead of
so it's
this this needs to be 20
23 so
because yeah so that's
perfect um
um yeah we just got to get this ready to
print man so uh let's
um so we probably have to redo oh
uh the
fix shaft Pole to actually be
the diameter of of
the raised shaft
ring okay so then if we go here let's
just make sure that this
uh you did this
right I that does look right to me
actually The
Joint so uh yeah I think if we had gone
before it would have been there would
have been an intersection so this is all
very good now we need to add the
coupler and I actually want to know
about the
coupler how tall is
it
21 yeah that's right yeah it's 21 so
let's just insert that really quickly
and which way does it need to go it
needs to go let's just raise this up it
needs to
rotate
180 it needs to be like
that okay then this is right actually
I'm almost positive these should be
literally flat like identically flat
so I'm just going to raise this up and
say okay then do the
joint here
to
here okay then we need to rotate at
zero
what oh wait this is oh no no I need to
do
flip
okay all right that seems right and then
the only thing is we need to now add the
uh
[Music]
um the top
plate okay and this does look right so
we want to
join yeah so let's say okay and we want
to join this
to the bottom
or you know what we could probably just
do the
top and flip
it oh [__] um wait that's weird how is
that I don't get it this thing is joined
how can this thing move somewhere
else okay let's just try that again
we're going to
join this
to
here okay
then wait we didn't do that
right oh wait we need just need a
flip I think that's right oh no it's not
right oh wait no no if we just do
this all right let's try to get a
cross-sectional view section analysis we
want
uh let's get this
plane wait why am I not getting a view
of this thing at all
oh okay I that that looks right to me
so let's turn off
that all right so this seems like all we
need now um I guess what we could do is
we could put in Fasteners I don't know
what these are
they're they're they're those ones that
are like sharp at the
end um okay so they're round headed
they're yeah they're kind of like this
self-tapping sheet metal can I get a
picture of this thing I feel like
they're self-tapping
screws they're not really no they're not
this something that's sharp at the
end cuz actually
yeah wait
uh how to add screws in
Fusion the ones that are pointy at the
end I I see add
Fasteners
okay dude and now GPT just remembers
everything it's like to too
much uh to add screws okay they are
self-tapping so let's go back to
self-tapping
dude oh
wait that looks that looks good except
it's not hex
po I'm kind of down to just add them
though let's just do
it
okay nice uh so uh yeah so this is
basically pretty
oh I guess we I guess we need to
um add in the phone
holder what is it called
pan dude there's no search in here
that's like the most crazy thing about
this the hell is it
called oh is it then
um okay so let's just move this
up and then um we want to join so just
say okay then we want to join this
thing to um this thing okay then we want
to flip it and then we're done then we
want to add
Fasteners and we want to go back to our
normal bolts and screws uh uh and hex
head and then can can I just look at
what I
had it's
[Music]
um is it
this and what is this
broed
hexagon I wish I could open it in
the H you got to go through the whole
thing again totally crazy bro
I think it's probably this
no heavy hex
bolt what's the difference between the
screw and the
bolt whatever let's just put this
in oh the problem is oh no okay so we
want to put this in there I don't know
why it's giving me
yeah wait we want uh we want an
M five
right why the hell can't I put
a oh I should add
favorites oh there we there
was I think it
is and then we need to add nuts that's a
hex nut
dude like
what what the hell is going on
okay nice so here is the second version
of the thing okay so now we can save
this added pan holder
okay um so let's uh let's get to
printing this stuff we want to
um save as
mesh top plate 2 V2
fantastic and then
um where should I put
this whatever let's just do this
um phone
tracker
okay have this save that
now we need the uh bottom
plate save as
mesh
okay pH tracker okay so those are the
only two parts that we actually need to
print here so
then yeah man I have this uh stepper
motor I'm trying to make a a face
tracking
camera okay so um dude it's good to good
to hear from you man it's been a long
time uh okay let's uh let's open up
bambo yeah I got a 3D printer bro and
I'm just going ham on the 3D printing I
love it it's so
fun okay
okay
so
we
need
to phone
tracker print both of
these okay so then you do auto place
Auto
auto so okay so
this I'm so skeptical of this I want to
do
uh so first we need to enable support so
maybe that'll change
the I don't
know I'm so skeptical about this I kind
of want to use
um How do I select the um
oh
tree okay three holy [__] okay wait
let's try a normal let's
reslice bro I'm so annoyed about this
last time also it seems like taller but
whatever I don't I don't actually care
let's just print
it um and see how it
goes okay so
then all right so then now we should
have something that you you screw it in
and it sits on the
table and you can spin the top
around without the cable getting tangled
up uh okay so so what did we do today we
basically debugged the
um the why the Pico wasn't working it
was just cuz I probably didn't plug in
five I PL I had five volts plugged into
it instead of the arduinos or the uh
Pico's three 3
volts so uh nice
I got done what I wanted to